I'm Tim Beckham and in this video I'm
going to show you how to build a nerfs
firmware for the raspberry pi zero that
lets you use a single micro USB cable to
both power the device and run a serial
IEX session I'm going to use the OTG
port on the Raspberry Pi 0 for data and
power which requires a special kernel
module to be installed as well as
something called a firmware overlay
using a custom kernel to support this
require something called a custom nerves
system building a custom system for
nerves might seem daunting and I
personally was hesitant about doing this
at first after a little practice it
becomes no big deal and you'll see I've
done all the work for this system image
already now I need a Linux environment
to build my custom system so I'm going
to run a docker container on my Mac host
to do the nerve system build in order to
build a custom system image we need both
the nerve system build root and the
nerve system our PI project's checked
out of git I have modified the nerve
system our PI configuration to suit my
needs here so I'll check out my own repo
instead of the officially maintained
package here I'm cloning the main nerves
build route repo in this example no
modifications are necessary to that repo
now I'm cloning the special are pi0 repo
this repo contains the kernel
configuration for gadget mode drivers
that lets Linux make a USB interface
switch between host and device modes
depending on what is attached it also
enables the DWC to overlay so that the
PI 0 looks like the right kind of USB
hardware for the kernel drivers to use
finally I'll run a script that takes the
two projects and creates a build folder
that combines the two into a nerve
system image for the sake of time I'm
going to switch into a directory where
I've already made a system image because
the initial build time of a fresh system
can take a while I'm making the system
image now even if make has already been
run this takes a little while
okay now we're making the gzip tar file
of the system image so we can copy it
over the shared folder to the host Mac
file system this also takes a minute
okay now I'll copy the file over as well
as the stock ERL and NIT config file
that comes with the system image I'll
explain why I'm doing that in a minute
we're done in the docker now so let's
move over to the host computer to do the
rest now that we have a system image
let's stage it for use
I've extracted the nerve system files
and now I'll let nerve to know the
location of the system folder to use
instead of the official our PI image
this is done using nerve system as an
export variable environment variable now
I'll create a new nerves app to use the
custom system image
in order to use the serial USB
connection instead of the default HDMI
output for the IE X session we need to
do something called a route FS Edition
will tell nerves where in the local file
system to look for files that will
override the default image files now
I'll create a directory to hold the ER
ll net config file I copied earlier and
will tweak the configuration a little to
put IX on the right console
ttyl one is the hdmi output what I'm
changing it to is something called TTY
GS 0 and that I believe stands for
gadget serial 0 that is the USB serial
device that gets created with our custom
nerves image I'm also going to uncomment
this run on exit command this means that
when I press control C control C I will
actually exit to a shell instead of the
the Raspberry Pi just halting with those
changes I'm going to run mix depths get
and build the firmware just like I
normally would
I always forget this step this is a
relatively new thing for me
now I'll burn it to the microSD card you
see attached to my Mac
now I'll attach this to the Raspberry Pi
zero and boot it up
alright it looks like it's done I should
now have a USB modem device on my Mac
when I connect to it you see that I have
an IE x session this is the running
application that nerves has started with
it's ERL and it config